HSQLDB - Introduction

https://www.tutorialspoint.com/hsqldb/hsqldb_introduction.htm

HSQLDB, Tutorial, Introduction, Installation, Connect, Data Types, Create Table, Drop Table, Insert Query, Select Query, Where Clause, Update Query, Delete Clause, LIKE Clause, Sorting Results, Joins, Null Values, Regular Expressions, Transactions, Alter Command, Indexes.

August-15-2017-02:34:09

HyperSQL Database (HSQLDB) is a modern relational database manager that conforms closely to the SQL:2011 standard and JDBC 4 specifications. It supports all core features and RDBMS. HSQLDB is used for development, testing, and deployment of database applications. The main and unique feature of HSQLDB is Standard Compliance. It can provide database access within the user's application process, within an application server, or as a separate server process. Features of HSQLDB HSQLDB uses in-memory structure for fast operations against DB server. It uses disk persistence as per user flexibility, with a reliable crash recovery. HSQLDB is also suitable for business intelligence, ETL, and other applications that process large data sets. HSQLDB has a wide range of enterprise deployment options, such as XA transactions, connection pooling data sources, and remote authentication. HSQLDB is written in the Java programming language and runs in a Java Virtual Machine (JVM). It supports the JDBC interface for database access. Components of HSQLDB There are three different components in HSQLDB jar package. HyperSQL RDBMS Engine (HSQLDB) HyperSQL JDBC Driver Database Manager (GUI database access tool, with Swing and AWT versions) HyperSQL RDBMS and JDBC Driver provide the core functionality. Database Managers are general-purpose database access tools that can be used with any database engine having a JDBC driver. An additional jar called sqltool.jar, contains Sql Tool, which is a command line database access tool. This is a general purpose command. Line database access tool that can be used with other database engines as well.
