IMS DB Online Quiz

https://www.tutorialspoint.com/ims_db/ims_db_online_quiz.htm

IMS DB, overview, structure, dl/i terminology, dl/i processing, control blocks, programming, cobol basics, dl/i functions, pcb mask, ssa, data retrieval, data manipulation, secondary indexing, logical database, recovery, interview questions.

August-07-2017-01:26:44

Following quiz provides Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs) related to IMS DB Framework. You will have to read all the given answers and click over the correct answer. If you are not sure about the answer then you can check the answer using Show Answer button. You can use Next Quiz button to check new set of questions in the quiz. Q 1 - Which database processing is very fast? A - DB2 B - IMS-DB C - Both A & B D - None of these Answer : A Explanation IMS DB processing is very fast as compared to DB2. Show Answer Q 2 - What does DBDGEN stands for? A - Database Descriptor Generator B - Data Description Generator C - Database Description Generator D - None of these Answer : A Explanation DBDGEN stands for Database Descriptor Generator. Show Answer Q 3 - Which function is used to get the next record in sequential order? A - DLI-GU B - DLI-GHU C - DLI-GN D - DLI-GHN Answer : C Explanation 'GN' code is used for the Get Next function. It works similar to the read next statement in COBOL. It is used to fetch segment occurrences in a sequence. Show Answer Q 4 - Which function is used is used to replace a segment in the IMS DL/I database? A - DLI-GNP B - DLI-ISRT C - DLI-DLET D - DLI-REPL Answer : D Explanation 'REPL' code is used for Get Hold Next within Parent. The Replace function is used to replace a segment in the IMS DL/I database. Show Answer Q 5 - In PCB which field contains the longest possible concatenated key that can be used with the program’s view of the database? A - LENGTH-FB-KEY B - NUMB-SENS-SEGS C - KEY-FB-AREA D - SEG-NAME Answer : C Explanation Key feedback area varies in length from one PCB to another. It contains the longest possible concatenated key that can be used with the program’s view of the database. Show Answer Q 6 - What command code we used to code for Concatenated Key? A - C B - D C - F D - L Answer : A Explanation To use command codes, specify an asterisk in the 9th position of the SSA and for concatenated key we code C at 10th position. Show Answer Q 7 - How many key fields are allowed in segment? A - 1 B - 100 C - No Limit D - 255 Answer : A Explanation There can be only one key field in a segment. Show Answer Q 8 - When we issue a GU or GN call, the DL/I establishes its parentage at the lowest level segment that is retrieved. If we include a P command code, then the DL/I establishes its parentage at a higher level segment in the hierarchical path. State whether true or false? A - False B - True Answer : B Explanation This is self explanatory. Show Answer Q 9 - When we build a secondary index, the apparent hierarchical structure of the database is also changed. The index target segment becomes the apparent root segment. State whether true or false? A - False B - True Answer : B Explanation This is self explanatory. Show Answer Q 10 - What error code you will get when you try to add a segment occurrence that is already present in the database? A - II B - Spaces C - DA D - GF Answer : A Explanation This is self explanatory. Show Answer ims_db_questions_answers.htm
