MongoDB Questions and Answers

https://www.tutorialspoint.com/mongodb/mongodb_questions_answers.htm

Mongodb, overview, Advantages, Environment, Data Modelling, Create Database, Drop Database, Create Collection, Drop Collection, Data Types, Insert Document, Query Document, Update Document, Delete Document, Projection, Limiting Records, Sorting, Records, Indexing, Aggregration, Replication, Sharding, Create Backup, Deployment, Java, PHP, Relationships, Database References, Covered Queries, Analyzing Queries, Atomic Operations, Advanced Indexing, Indexing Limitations, ObjectId, Map Reduce, Text Search, Regular Expression, Rockmongo, GridFS, Capped Collections, Auto-Increment Sequence.

August-15-2017-02:34:09

MongoDB Questions and Answers has been designed with a special intention of helping students and professionals preparing for various Certification Exams and Job Interviews. This section provides a useful collection of sample Interview Questions and Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs) and their answers with appropriate explanations. SN Question/Answers Type 1 MongoDB Interview Questions This section provides a huge collection of MongoDB Interview Questions with their answers hidden in a box to challenge you to have a go at them before discovering the correct answer. 2 MongoDB Online Quiz This section provides a great collection of MongoDB Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs) on a single page along with their correct answers and explanation. If you select the right option, it turns green; else red. 3 MongoDB Online Test If you are preparing to appear for a Java and MongoDB Framework related certification exam, then this section is a must for you. This section simulates a real online test along with a given timer which challenges you to complete the test within a given time-frame. Finally you can check your overall test score and how you fared among millions of other candidates who attended this online test. 4 MongoDB Mock Test This section provides various mock tests that you can download at your local machine and solve offline. Every mock test is supplied with a mock test key to let you verify the final score and grade yourself.
