Redis - Strings

https://www.tutorialspoint.com/redis/redis_strings.htm

Redis, Tutorial, Beginners, Overview, Environment, Configuration, Data, types, Commands, Keys, Strings, Hashes, Lists, Sets, Sorted Sets, HyperLogLog, Pub/Sub, Transactions, Scripting, Connection, Server, Backup, Security, Benchmarks, Client Connection, Pipelining, Partitioning.

August-15-2017-02:34:21

Redis strings commands are used for managing string values in Redis. Following is the syntax for using Redis string commands. Syntax 
redis 127.0.0.1:6379> COMMAND KEY_NAME 
 Example 
redis 127.0.0.1:6379> SET tutorialspoint redis 
OK 
redis 127.0.0.1:6379> GET tutorialspoint 
"redis" 
 In the above example, SET and GET are the commands, while tutorialspoint is the key. Redis Strings Commands Following table lists some basic commands to manage strings in Redis. S.No Command & Description 1 SET key value This command sets the value at the specified key. 2 GET key Gets the value of a key. 3 GETRANGE key start end Gets a substring of the string stored at a key. 4 GETSET key value Sets the string value of a key and return its old value. 5 GETBIT key offset Returns the bit value at the offset in the string value stored at the key. 6 MGET key1 [key2..] Gets the values of all the given keys 7 SETBIT key offset value Sets or clears the bit at the offset in the string value stored at the key 8 SETEX key seconds value Sets the value with the expiry of a key 9 SETNX key value Sets the value of a key, only if the key does not exist 10 SETRANGE key offset value Overwrites the part of a string at the key starting at the specified offset 11 STRLEN key Gets the length of the value stored in a key 12 MSET key value [key value ...] Sets multiple keys to multiple values 13 MSETNX key value [key value ...] Sets multiple keys to multiple values, only if none of the keys exist 14 PSETEX key milliseconds value Sets the value and expiration in milliseconds of a key 15 INCR key Increments the integer value of a key by one 16 INCRBY key increment Increments the integer value of a key by the given amount 17 INCRBYFLOAT key increment Increments the float value of a key by the given amount 18 DECR key Decrements the integer value of a key by one 19 DECRBY key decrement Decrements the integer value of a key by the given number 20 APPEND key value Appends a value to a key
