OBIEE Online Quiz

https://www.tutorialspoint.com/obiee/obiee_online_quiz.htm

OBIEE, Tutorial, Data Warehouse, Dimensional Modeling, Schema, Basics, Components, Architecture, Repositories, Business Layer, Presentation Layer, Testing Repository, Multiple Logical Table Sources, Calculation Measures, Dimension Hierarchies, Level-Based Measures, Aggregates, Variables, Dashboards, Filters, Views, Prompts, Security, Administration.

August-15-2017-02:34:09

Following quiz provides Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs) related to OBIEE. You will have to read all the given answers and click over the correct answer. If you are not sure about the answer then you can check the answer using Show Answer button. You can use Next Quiz button to check new set of questions in the quiz. Q 1 - Which of the following component takes the request from users via browser and pass all requests to OBIEE server? A - OBIEE Presentation Server B - OBIEE Application Server C - OBIEE Scheduler D - Oracle BI Server Answer : A Explanation OBIEE Presentation Server It takes the request from users via browser and pass all requests to OBIEE server. Show Answer Q 2 - Designing an OBIEE repository using administration tool is how many layer process? A - 2 B - 3 C - 4 D - 5 Answer : B Explanation It is a three layer process- starting from Physical Layer (Schema Design), Business Model Layer, Presentation Layer. Show Answer Q 3 - Physical layer in OBIEE supports single data source in a single repository and you need to create multiple repositories to use multiple data sources? A - True B - False Answer : A Explanation Physical layer in OBIEE supports multiple data sources in a single repository - i.e. data sets from 2 different data sources can be performed in OBIEE. Show Answer Q 4 - While Creating Business Model and Mapping Layer of a Repository, arrange the following in correct order in normal scenario − 1.Create a Business Model 2.Creating Measures (Aggregations) 3.Examine Logical Joins 4.Rename Logical Table Objects Using the Rename Wizard and Deleting Unnecessary Logical Objects. 5.Rename Logical Table Objects Manually A - 1,2,3,4,5 B - 1,3,4,5,2 C - 1,3,5,4,2 D - 1,4,5,3,2 Answer : C Explanation To build the Business Model and Mapping layer of a repository, below are the steps − Create a Business Model Examine Logical Joins Examine Logical Columns Examine Logical Table Sources Rename Logical Table Objects Manually Rename Logical Table Objects Using the Rename Wizard and Deleting Unnecessary Logical Objects Creating Measures (Aggregations) Show Answer Q 5 - When you drag the tables from Physical layer to BMM layer, it also preserves the joins and keys automatically? A - True B - False Answer : A Show Answer Q 6 - The name of presentation columns are normally different from logical column names in the Business Model and Mapping layer? A - True B - False Answer : B Show Answer Q 7 - What is the extension of Repository file? A - .RXD B - .RCD C - .RPD D - .RLD Answer : C Show Answer Q 8 - In the current version of OBIEE (11g), java component used is: A - oc4j B - Fusion Middleware C - Weblogic server D - None of these Answer : C Show Answer Q 9 - Session variables are similar to dynamic repository variables and that they obtain their values from initialization blocks? A - True B - False Answer : A Show Answer Q 10 - Which of the following can be used to create a new user in OBIEE? A - Repository B - WebLogic Server Admin console C - OBIEE Dashboard D - Scheduler Answer : B Explanation To create a new user, log on to the WebLogic Server admin console → Security Realms from the Fusion Middleware Control menu. Show Answer obiee_questions_answers.htm
