DB2 - Introduction

https://www.tutorialspoint.com/db2/db2_introduction.htm

DB2 Bufferpools, introduction to db2, db2 server installation, db2 instance, databases, buffer pools, table spaces, storage groups, schemas, data type, tables, alias, constraints, indexes, triggers, sequences, views, db2 with xml, backup and recovery, database security, roles, ldap etc.

August-15-2017-02:34:24

This chapter describes history of DB2, its versions, editions and their respective features. Overview DB2 is a database product from IBM. It is a Relational Database Management System (RDBMS). DB2 is designed to store, analyze and retrieve the data efficiently. DB2 product is extended with the support of Object-Oriented features and non-relational structures with XML. History Initially, IBM had developed DB2 product for their specific platform. Since year 1990, it decided to develop a Universal Database (UDB) DB2 Server, which can run on any authoritative operating systems such as Linux, UNIX, and Windows. Versions For IBM DB2, the UDB current version is 10.5 with the features of BLU Acceleration and its code name as 'Kepler'. All the versions of DB2 till today are listed below: Version Code Name 3.4 Cobweb 8.1, 8.2 Stinger 9.1 Viper 9.5 Viper 2 9.7 Cobra 9.8 It added features with Only PureScale 10.1 Galileo 10.5 Kepler Data server editions and features Depending upon the requirement of needful features of DB2, the organizations select appropriate DB2 version. The following table shows DB2 server editions and their features: Editions Features Advanced Enterprise Server Edition and Enterprise Server Edition (AESE / ESE) It is designed for mid-size to large-size business organizations. Platform - Linux, UNIX, and Windows. Table partitioning High Availability Disaster Recovery (HARD) Materialized Query Table (MQTs) Multidimensional Clustering (MDC) Connection concentrator Pure XML Backup compression Homogeneous Federations Workgroup Server Edition (WSE) It is designed for Workgroup or mid-size business organizations. Using this WSE you can work with - High Availability Disaster Recovery (HARD) Online Reorganization Pure XML Web Service Federation support DB2 Homogeneous Federations Homogeneous SQL replication Backup compression Express -C It provides all the capabilities of DB2 at zero charge. It can run on any physical or virtual systems with any size of configuration. Express Edition It is designed for entry level and mid-size business organizations. It is full featured DB2 data server. It offers only limited services. This Edition comes with - Web Service Federations DB2 homogeneous federations Homogeneous SQL Replications Backup compression Enterprise Developer Edition It offers only single application developer. It is useful to design, build and prototype the applications for deployment on any of the IBM server. The software cannot be used for developing applications.
