DynamoDB - Operations Tools

https://www.tutorialspoint.com/dynamodb/dynamodb_operations_tools.htm

DynamoDB, Tutorial, Learning, Overview, Basic Concepts, Environment, Operations Tools, Data Types, Create, Load, Query, Delete Table, API Interface, Creating, Getting, Update, Delete Items, Batch Writing, Batch Retrieve, Querying, Scan, Indexes, Global, Local Secondary Indexes, Aggregation, Access Control, Permissions API, Conditions, Web Identity Federation, Data Pipeline, Data Backup, Monitoring, CloudTrail, MapReduce, Table Activity, Error Handling, Best Practices.

August-15-2017-02:34:06

DynamoDB provides three options for performing operations: a web-based GUI console, a JavaScript shell, and a programming language of your choice. In this tutorial, we will focus on using the GUI console and Java language for clarity and conceptual understanding. GUI Console The GUI console or the AWS Management Console for Amazon DynamoDB can be found at the following address − https://console.aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/home It allows you to perform the following tasks − CRUD View Table Items Perform Table Queries Set Alarms for Table Capacity Monitoring View Table Metrics in Real-Time View Table Alarms If your DynamoDB account has no tables, on access, it guides you through creating a table. Its main screen offers three shortcuts for performing common operations − Create Tables Add and Query Tables Monitor and Manage Tables The JavaScript Shell DynamoDB includes an interactive JavaScript shell. The shell runs inside a web browser, and the recommended browsers include Firefox and Chrome. Note − Using other browsers may result in errors. Access the shell by opening a web browser and entering the following address: http://localhost:8000/shell Use the shell by entering JavaScript in the left pane, and clicking the “Play” icon button in the top right corner of the left pane, which runs the code. The code results display in the right pane. DynamoDB and Java Use Java with DynamoDB by utilizing your Java development environment. Operations confirm to normal Java syntax and structure.
