OrientDB - Alter Database

https://www.tutorialspoint.com/orientdb/orientdb_alter_database.htm

OrientDB, Tutorial, Learning, Beginners, Overview, Installation, Basic Concepts, Data Types, Console Modes, Create Database, Alter Database, Backup Database, Restore Database, Connect Database, Disconnect Database, Info Database, List Database, Freeze Database, Release Database, Config Database, Export Database, Import Database, Commit Database, Rollback Database, Optimize Database, Drop Database, Insert Record, Display Records, Load Record, Reload Record, Export Record, Update Record, Truncate Record, Delete Record, Create Class, Alter Class, Truncate Class, Drop Class, Create Cluster, Alter Cluster, Truncate Cluster, Drop Cluster, Create Property, Alter Property, Drop Property, Create Vertex, Move Vertex, Delete Vertex, Create Edge, Update Edge, Delete Edge, Functions, Sequences, Indexes, Transactions, Hooks, Caching, Logging, Performance Tuning, Upgrading, Security, Studio, Java Interface, Python Interface.

August-15-2017-02:34:10

Database is a one of the important data models with different attributes that you can modify as per your requirements. The following statement is the basic syntax of the Alter Database command. 
ALTER DATABASE <attribute-name> <attribute-value> 
 Where <attribute-name> defines the attribute that you want to modify and <attribute-value> defines the value you want to set for that attribute. The following table defines the list of supported attributes for altering a database. Sr.No. Attribute Name Description 1 STATUS Defines the database’s status between different attributes. 2 IMPORTING Sets the importing status. 3 DEFAULTCLUSTERID Sets the default cluster using ID. By default it is 2. 4 DATEFORMAT Sets the particular date format as default. By default it is "yyyy-MM-dd". 5 DATETIMEFORMAT Sets the particular date time format as default. By default it is "yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss". 6 TIMEZONE Sets the particular time zone. By default it is Java Virtual Machine’s (JVM’s) default time zone. 7 LOCALECOUNTRY Sets the default locale country. By default it is JVM’s default locale country. For example: "GB". 8 LOCALELANGUAGE Sets the default locale language. By default it is JVM’s default locale language. For example: "en". 9 CHARSET Sets the type of character set. By default it is JVM’s default charset. For example: "utf8". 10 CLUSTERSELECTION Sets the default strategy used for selecting the cluster. These strategies are created along with the class creation. Supported strategies are default, roundrobin, and balanced. 11 MINIMUMCLUSTERS Sets the minimum number of clusters to create automatically when a new class is created. By default it is 1. 12 CUSTOM Sets the custom property. 13 VALIDATION Disables or enables the validations for entire database. Example From the version of OrientDB-2.2, the new SQL parser is added which will not allow the regular syntax in some cases. Therefore, we have to disable the new SQL parser (StrictSQL) in some cases. You can use the following Alter database command to disable the StrictSQL parser. 
orientdb> ALTER DATABASE custom strictSQL = false 
 If the command is executed successfully, you will get the following output. 
Database updated successfully
