Java XML Online Quiz

https://www.tutorialspoint.com/java_xml/java_xml_online_quiz.htm

JAVA XML Parsers, DOM Parser, Parse XML Document, Query XML Document, Create XML Document, Modify XML Document, SAX Parser, JDOM XML Parser, StAX Parser, XPath Parser, DOM4J Parser, XSLT, JAXB

August-15-2017-02:34:06

Following quiz provides Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs) related to Java XML Framework. You will have to read all the given answers and click over the correct answer. If you are not sure about the answer then you can check the answer using Show Answer button. You can use Next Quiz button to check new set of questions in the quiz. Q 1 - Which of the following parses the document on event based triggers and does not load the complete document into the memory? A - Dom Parser B - SAX Parser C - JDOM Parser D - StAX Parser Answer : B Explaination SAX Parser parses the document on event based triggers and does not load the complete document into the memory. Show Answer Q 2 - Which of the following component represent actual content of an element or attribute in DOM Parsing? A - Text B - Element C - Attr D - Document Answer : A Explaination Text represents the actual content of an Element or Attr. Show Answer Q 3 - Which of the following method get called when document begins in SAX parsing? A - startDocument() B - endDocument() C - startElement() D - endElement() Answer : A Explaination startDocument() method is called at the beginning of a document. Show Answer Q 4 - Can we create an XML document using JDOM parser? A - true B - false Answer : A Explaination Yes! Using JDOM parser, we can parse, modify or create a XML document. Show Answer Q 5 - XPath defines the parts of an XML document like element, attribute, text, namespace, processing-instruction, comment, and document nodes. A - true B - false Answer : A Explaination XPath defines the parts of an XML document like element, attribute, text, namespace, processing-instruction, comment, and document nodes. Show Answer Q 6 - Which of the following is true about DOM4J Parser? A - DOM4J is an open source, java based library to parse XML document. B - It is highly flexible, high-performance, and memory-efficient API. C - Both of the above. D - None of the above. Answer : C Explaination DOM4J is an open source, java based library to parse XML document. It is highly flexible, high-performance, and memory-efficient API. Show Answer Q 7 - Which of the following method of DOM4J Parser gets all the attributes of an element? A - Document.valueOf(@Name) B - Element.valueOf(@Name) C - Node.valueOf(@Name) D - Dom4j.valueOf(@Name) Answer : C Explaination Node.valueOf(@Name) gets all the attributes of an element. Show Answer Q 8 - XML is Extensible. A - false B - true Answer : B Explaination In XML, custom tags can be created and used very easily. Show Answer Q 9 - Can we modify an XML document using SAX parser? A - true B - false Answer : A Explaination Yes! Using SAX parser, we can parse, modify a XML document. Show Answer Q 10 - Can we modify an XML document using StAX parser? A - true B - false Answer : A Explaination Yes! Using StAX parser, we can parse, modify and even create a XML document. Show Answer java_xml_questions_answers.htm
