OBIEE – Basics

https://www.tutorialspoint.com/obiee/obiee_basics.htm

OBIEE, Tutorial, Data Warehouse, Dimensional Modeling, Schema, Basics, Components, Architecture, Repositories, Business Layer, Presentation Layer, Testing Repository, Multiple Logical Table Sources, Calculation Measures, Dimension Hierarchies, Level-Based Measures, Aggregates, Variables, Dashboards, Filters, Views, Prompts, Security, Administration.

August-15-2017-02:34:09

OBIEE stands for Oracle Business Intelligence Enterprise Edition, a set of Business Intelligence tools and is provided by Oracle Corporation. It enables the user to deliver robust set of reporting, ad-hoc query and analysis, OLAP, dashboard, and scorecard functionality with a rich end-user experience that includes visualization, collaboration, alerts and many more options. Key Points OBIEE provides robust reporting which makes data easier for business users to access. OBIEE provides a common infrastructure for producing and delivering enterprise reports, scorecards, dashboards, ad-hoc analysis, and OLAP analysis. OBIEE reduces cost with a proven web-based service-oriented architecture that integrates with existing IT infrastructure. OBIEE enables the user to include rich visualization, interactive dashboards, a vast range of animated charting options, OLAP-style interactions, innovative search, and actionable collaboration capabilities to increase the user adoption. These capabilities enable your organization to make better decisions, take informed actions, and implement more-efficient business processes. Competitors in the Market The main competitors of OBIEE are Microsoft BI tools, SAP AG Business Objects, IBM Cognos and SAS Institute Inc. As OBIEE enables the user to create interactive dashboards, robust reports, animated charts and also because of its cost-effectiveness, it is widely used by many companies as one of main tool for Business Intelligence solution. Advantages of OBIEE OBIEE provides various types of visualizations to insert in dashboards to make it more interactive. It allows you to create flash reports, report templates, and ad-hoc reporting for end users. It provides close integration with major data sources and can also be integrated with third party vendors like Microsoft to embed data in PowerPoint presentations and word documents. Following are the key features and benefits of OBIEE tool − Features Key Benefits of OBIEE Interactive Dashboards Provides fully interactive dashboards and reports with a rich variety of visualizations Self-serve Interactive Reporting Enable business users to create new analyses from scratch or modify existing analyses without any help from IT Enterprise Reporting Allows the creation of highly formatted templates, reports, and documents such as flash reports, checks, and more Proactive Detection and Alerts provides a powerful, near-real-time, multi-step alert engine that can trigger workflows based on business events and notify stakeholders via their preffered medium and channel Actionable Intelligence Turns insights into actions by providing the ability to invoke business processes from within the business intelligence dashboards and reports Microsoft Office Integration Enables users to embed up-to-the-minute corporate data in Microsoft PowerPoint, word, and Excel documents Spatial Intelligence via Map-based Visualizations Allows users to visualize their analytics data using maps, bringing the intuitiveness of spatial visualization to the world of business intelligence How to Sign in to OBIEE? To sign into OBIEE, you can use web URL, user name and password. To sign into Oracle BI Enterprise Edition − Step 1 − In the Web browser address bar, enter URL to access OBIEE. The "Sign In page" is displayed. Step 2 − Enter your user name and password → Select the language (You can change the language by selecting another language in the User Interface Language field in the My Account dialog Preferences tab") → Click on Sign In tab. It will take you to the next page as per configuration: OBIEE homepage as shown in the following image or to My Dashboard page/Personal Dashboard or a Dashboard specific to your job role.
