OBIEE – Components

https://www.tutorialspoint.com/obiee/obiee_components.htm

OBIEE, Tutorial, Data Warehouse, Dimensional Modeling, Schema, Basics, Components, Architecture, Repositories, Business Layer, Presentation Layer, Testing Repository, Multiple Logical Table Sources, Calculation Measures, Dimension Hierarchies, Level-Based Measures, Aggregates, Variables, Dashboards, Filters, Views, Prompts, Security, Administration.

August-15-2017-02:34:09

OBIEE components are mainly divided into two types of components − Server Components Client Components Server components are responsible to run OBIEE system and client components interact with user to create reports and dashboards. Server Components Following are the server components − Oracle BI (OBIEE) Server Oracle Presentation Server Application Server Scheduler Cluster Controller Oracle BI Server This component is the heart of OBIEE system and is responsible to communicate with other components. It generates queries for report request and they are sent to database for execution. It is also responsible for managing repository components which are presented to the user for report generation, handles security mechanism, multi user environment, etc. OBIEE Presentation Server It takes the request from users via browser and passes all requests to OBIEE server. OBIEE Application Server OBIEE Application Server helps to work on client components and Oracle provides Oracle10g Application server with OBIEE suite. OBIEE Scheduler It is responsible to schedule jobs in OBIEE repository. When you create a repository, OBIEE also create a table inside the repository which saves all schedule-related information. This component is also mandatory to run agents in 11g. All jobs which are scheduled by the Scheduler can be monitored by the job manager. Client Components Following are some client components − Web-based OBIEE Client Following tools are provided in OBIEE web-based client − Interactive Dashboards Oracle Delivers BI Publisher BI Presentation Service Administrator Answers Disconnected Analytics MS Office Plugin Non-Web based Client In Non-Web based client, following are the key components − OBIEE Administration − It is used to build repositories and has three layers − Physical, Business, and Presentation. ODBC Client − It is used to connect to database and execute SQL commands.
