DB2 - Data Types

https://www.tutorialspoint.com/db2/db2_data_type.htm

DB2 Bufferpools, introduction to db2, db2 server installation, db2 instance, databases, buffer pools, table spaces, storage groups, schemas, data type, tables, alias, constraints, indexes, triggers, sequences, views, db2 with xml, backup and recovery, database security, roles, ldap etc.

August-15-2017-02:34:24

This chapter introduces various data types used in DB2. Introduction In DB2 Database tables, each column has its own data type depending on developer’s requirements. The data type is said to be type and range of the values in columns of a table. Built-in data types Datetime TIME: It represents the time of the day in hours, minutes and seconds. TIMESTAMP: It represents seven values of the date and time in the form of year, month, day, hours, minutes, seconds and microseconds. DATE: It represents date of the day in three parts in the form of year, month and day. String Character CHAR (fixed length): Fixed length of Character strings. Varying length VARCHAR: Varying length character strings. CLOB: large object strings, you use this when a character string might exceed the limits of the VARCHAR data type. Graphic GRAPHIC Fixed length: Fixed length graphic strings that contains double-byte characters Varying length VARGRAPHIC: Varying character graphic string that contains double bye characters. DBCLOB: large object type Binary BLOB (varying length): binary string in large object BOOLEAN: In the form of 0 and 1. Signed numeric Exact Binary integer SMALLINT [16BIT]: Using this you can insert small int values into columns INTEGER [32BIT]: Using this you can insert large int values into columns BIGINT [64BIT]: Using this you can insert larger int values into columns Decimal DECIMAL (packed) DECFLOAT (decimal floating point): Using this, you can insert decimal floating point numbers Approximate Floating points REAL (single precision): Using this data type, you can insert single precision floating point numbers. DOUBLE (double precision): Using this data type, you can insert double precision floating point numbers. eXtensible Mark-up Language XML: You can store XML data into this data type column.
